---
date: '2021-05-19T15:40:00-03:00'
draft: true
title: 2.2 PAK Kernel Components
---

The fundamental components used to construct other PAK parts.

[Arithmetic Components](2.2.1-Arithmetic-Components.md)
===========================

Provide the mathematical operations upon numerical values, such as:

-   `abs` to compute the absolute (positive) value of a number

-   **add**, **sub**, **mul**, **div** to compute the basic
    arithmetic operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication and division)

-   **int** to compute the integer part of a number

-   **mod** to calculate the remainder of an integer division

-   **max**, **min** to find the larger or smaller value of two or more numbers

-   **neg** to negate the number.

-   **round** to aproximate a numeric value to a number rounded to the desired
    quantity of fractionary digits.

-   **sqrt** to calculate the square root of a number


[String Components](2.2.2-String-Components.md)
=======================

Perform useful operations for the manipulation of strings, such as:

-   **cat** to concatenate two or more strings

-   **char** to generate the character from its numerical code point 

-   **codepoint** to reveal the numerical code point of a Unicode character (see
    also *char*)

-   **extract** to extract a substring out of a string

-   **find** to find the position of a string inside another string

-   **format** to produce a more readable string out of a string

-   **len** to count the number of characters of a string, its length

-   **lower** to convert all upper case characters in a string to their
    corresponding lower case (see also *upper*)

-   **piece** to extract a substring based on separator characters

-   **pieces** to count the number of pieces of a string

-   **replace** to replace a substring with another substring within a string

-   **translate** to change characters of a string based on a translation table

-   **trim** to remove leading or trailing blanks out of a string

-   **upper** to convert all lower case characters in a string to their
    corresponding upper case (see also *lower*)


[Compound Components](2.2.3-Compound-Components.md)
======================

Provide useful operations for the manipulation of compound strings, also known as **SoS** (_String of Strings_), such as:

- **pack** its several inputs into a SoS.



[User Interface Components](2.2.4-User-Interface-Components.md)
======================

Provide mechanisms to interact with the user, receiving input data and exhibit the result of data processing.

-   **input** to receive a string from a connected output component.

-   **output** to make available the result of a computation to connected inputs of other components.

-   **read** to receive a string from the external filesystem.


 
[Control Flow](2.2.5-Control-Flow-Components.md)
==================

Provide the mechanisms to control the execution sequence of components, such as:

-   **if** to select a path of execution based on a boolean value condition.

-   **loop** to repeat the computation of a subtree of components by a certain
    number of times an/or while a boolean condition holds true.

-   **previous** to retrieve the value of a component computed during the previous loop cycle.


[Boolean](2.2.6-Boolean-Components.md)
==================

Provide the boolean and comparison operations upon its numerical input values, returning 1 (**true**) or 0 (**false**):

-   **AND**, **OR**, **XOR** to compute the basic boolean operations (AND, OR, eXclusive OR).
-   **EQ** to verify if its inputs have equal values.
-   **GE** to verify if the numerical value of an input is _greater or equal_ to the following input.
-   **GT** to verify if the numerical value of an input is _greater than_ the following input.
-   **NE** to verify if any of its inputs has differing values (Not Equal).
-   **NOT** to invert the boolean value of its input.




--------
>   *Next*: [Arithmetic Components](2.2.1-Arithmetic-Components.md)
